you can get people to pay you 10 times
more than they pay somebody else you can
get customers to convert on ads 10 times
higher than they normally do which means
it cost you a tenth to get 10 times more
that's a 100x differential and that is
how massive Brands print money over time
and so I want to give you the six steps
to building a personal brand or business
brand that you can follow and over the
last 40 months I went from zero to 8
million subscribers across all channels
we built our portfolio from just
starting out to doing over $250 million
a year by understanding this thing that
took me way too long so let's get into
it the first two steps are conceptual
the bottom four steps will be tactical
and the nice thing is that I'll give you
a framework and a few stories to kind of
like work through so you remember it um
and I think this is going to make a lot
of you a lot of money and will finally
bring to reality what so many people
have struggled to do it's like I get
that Nike is this big brand and if they
just put the swoosh on a t-shirt they
can sell for 20 times more wow that's
really valuable yeah but how they do
that right how did Apple go from just
some you know just a mediocre company to
becoming the Titan that it is and so if
anything even the Apple example should
give you a little bit of hope that even
if you are not premium today or you're
just kind of figuring it out today you
can absolutely become a a a juggernaut
in whatever industry in okay so there's
six steps we're going to go over and I'm
gonna walk you through each of them
right now all right so step number one
step number two three 4 five and six all
right all right so the first one is just
what is branding overall all right so
let's talk about that real quick so
branding is this big fancy word but all
it means is the association between two
things all right all we do is we pair so
pairing is the active verb that you do
as an entrepreneur to build a brand to
build an association between two things
now ideally the thing that we pair our
thing someone the thing that people
don't know about with the thing they do
know about is that the thing they do
know about is good right something that
they like and so step three we'll get
into we just going be about talk about
the right customer but for now you have
to understand what it is that we're
going to be doing to begin with which is
repairing the thing they don't know our
business and or us our personal brand
with the thing they do know and like
which is the good thing now if we do
this over and over and over again
eventually you can remove the other
thing and the association the likingness
kind of rubs off on you all right now
let me show you how powerful this is if
I got up on stage right and next to me
is all the Republican candidates that
would make that would shift your
perspective of me a lot because there'd
be a lot of associations strongly held
associations either positive or negative
with that group of guys or gals now on
the other hand if I stood same guy stood
up on stage same me same message with
all of the democratic party it would
give a very different perspective on who
I am now let's do door number three I
stand up on stage with all porn
stars there very different Association
and so the idea is a lot and the thing
is is that this Association these
pairings are happening every day all the
time in your business but most of the
time they're being done haphazardly and
so building a brand is a lot like making
a garden inside in in the front of your
house right there's a lot of weeds that
want to grow there it's natural for
there to be disorder for there to be
chaos and so a chaotic brand is
basically a meaningless brand because it
has so many things that are not
associated that Mak sense that it means
nothing to nobody right and so what you
have to do is you have to prune the tree
you have to pull the Wheats from the
garden you have to control what
associations what flowers you want to be
there and to proliferate CU imagine a a
Garden of Flowers where it's all roses
all red roses it'd be a very strong
association with that one type of flower
and versus somebody else is where like
if there's one or two roses but then
there's also some yellow flowers and
some daffodils and some sunflowers it's
really tough to say well what's that
what's that Garden about I don't know
and so that's what most people's
branding looks like and so number one is
understanding what is branding and
building a brand overall it's just an
association that we build that over time
once it's strong enough if I appeared a
hundred times in a row with porn stars
eventually you would just assume I'm in
the porn industry and I could remove the
porn stars and I would still remain and
people would make that Association that
would be part of my brand all right so
that's number one is what is brand if
we're going to build it we got to know
what it is the second is why should you
bother all right and this is important
so fundamentally if we think about what
makes money in a business you've got the
the fundamental Arbitrage of business is
how much it costs you to make money all
right so what that means is CAC the cost
you require a customer against LTV
lifetime lifetime value which is how
much you make over the lifetime of that
customer in terms of gross profit from
each customer all right and so let's say
if I spend a dollar to get a customer
and that customer is going to make me
$10 of gross profit then I have a 10 to1
LTV to CAC ratio and this is the
fundamental economic unit that exists in
every single business like if you boil
every business down to this one
fundamental thing it's how much does it
cost you to make more money that's
fundamentally even what investing in big
businesses drives down to the
fundamental economic exchange that
occurs within the business how much does
it cost you to make money now the reason
branding is so important and why you
look at the most valuable companies in
the world or said differently the most
valuable brands in the world what do
they have they have customers who it
costs them less to get them number one
people are willing to pay more higher
lifetime value and they don't buy from
anyone else which means they buy over
and over and over again and so if brand
can allow you to convert a higher
percentage of your audience get those
people to buy more times from you get
them to not buy from anyone else and get
them to do that at a higher price than
the commoditized price of the
marketplace those are some very powerful
things for a business arguably the most
important things that can't happen in
business and having a brand or a strong
brand strong positive associations with
your ideal audience is one of the
fastest and most power not fastest
excuse me the most powerful ways to
accomplish that and so if I told you you
could do that well why would you not if
it's the most valuable thing you can do
in a business from a dollars and cents
perspective now the thing is is that
building a system associations teaching
people what you are and what you're not
takes time but once you do accomplish
that teaching which is fundamentally
what branding is you're teaching someone
a pairing same thing like you teach a
kid that don't touch the stove it's hot
this you're trying to associate the
thing you don't want them to do with
something that they don't want to have
happen works the same way we're just
doing it in reverse okay so number one
what is brand it's the association of
between two things we do it over and
over again to make sure that it's only
the stuff that we want and then people
say oh this guy is the business guy
which is for me now why does it matter
we get more customers they buy more
times higher conversion percentages
lower CAC at higher prices and they buy
again and again and again great so I
understand why I want to do this now
let's actually start branding so this is
s it come down to who okay so whenever I
have this conversation with with a
business owner or somebody who's a
personal brand and to be clear here I
could say hey six steps to build a
personal brand I could also say six
steps to build a business brand believe
it or not it's the same same six steps
it all depends on who you're trying to
sell and so if you're building your own
brand if you're trying to sell a certain
Avatar then it's going to come depend to
that so I'm going to use a very boring
business so let's say I'm an accountant
okay I'm a CPA and I have an accounting
firm all right now if I want to Brand my
accounting firm I'm going to start with
who do I want to attract right who do I
want to attract and so these are the
qualifications that I think through when
I'm thinking about my who
now I have a whole chapter in this book
$100 mil offers that talks about this
but I'm going to give you the the the
crash course so number one is I want the
audience to be growing right because if
I have to pick between an audience
that's shrinking and getting smaller one
that's maintaining one that's growing
well shoot I'd rather go after one
that's bigger because even if I stay the
same size I'm still going to grow
because the Market's growing right so
number one I'd want them to be
growing number two this is sound obvious
again is I want to make sure they can
afford my stuff right I want people who
are making money because if I want to
charge a lot of money they got to have
the money so I can charge it right again
if I could go after poor people medium
people rich people well I'd rather go
after people who are rich and can afford
it so that's the second qualification
that I have that I look for for my who
remember I'm an accounting firm I've got
this skill set but I need a zero in a
little bit I don't want to be a
generalist I want to I want to serve a
specific Marketplace so I can charge a
premium and it makes it more
operationally sound for me because I
have to do the same thing over and over
again rather than come up with custom
Solutions over for every different
customer who walks in the door all right
the third thing that I want is hey I
want people are very easy to Target
because if I if I can't find my
customers right like I got people who
are really easy to find and really hard
to find well hell I'd rather have the
one that's really easy to find right and
so we're thinking about this in terms of
Basics but like this is this is real
stuff right it's like I want them to be
growing duh I want them to have the
money duh I want them to be easy to find
and
finally I want people who are in pain I
want people who actually want what I
have to sell if they are let's say I'm
going after a Marketplace and everyone's
all wied up right not necessarily a bad
thing because it means that there is
demand there as a side but if if no one
wants the service you have tough to sell
and so these are the four basic things
growing they can afford it I'm easy to
find and they're in pain okay fantastic
so let's walk through this if I'm if I'm
an accounting firm so if I'm an
accounting firm I want something that's
growing so I think um Health Trends
let's do this together live I think
Health Trends and aging um Boomers like
this is a big a big Market they have
they have a lot of money uh in terms of
easy to find okay so what's a business
that's that's hopping on this trend so
that would be like Med Spas semaglutide
clinics um cool so let's start with that
let's just say like Med spas and clinics
that are dealing with anti-aging for
Boomers and obviously they're in pain
from getting old because who isn't in
pain from being old and doesn't want to
be old uh so great so this checks all
the boxes all right so we found our who
so that is Step number three that meets
all four of our
qualifications great so now let's talk
about step number four which is now we
have to figure out what they like now
remember we're an accounting firm and
we're trying to find Med spas and and
anti-aging clinics to to do their
accounting for them okay so what do med
Spas so we're going to say Med Spas here
Med people right what do they like what
do those business owners like well they
probably like making more money number
one they probably want to get more
customers number two um they probably
want to make more profits they probably
want to build a sellable business those
are all things that they find they
probably want to have uh some help uh
recruiting Talent so that they don't
have to work as much inside the business
uh they probably have some issue
retaining talent because finding high
quality uh like nurses and nurse
practitioners ain't cheap and there's a
lot of demand for them uh right now
especially in the private market and so
it's like okay so these are some of the
things that they like and the these are
some of the problems they're struggling
with and so if I want to um build a
positive brand with these people I have
to find the things they like and the
things they're struggling with so we
just listed that out okay so now what we
need to do is in step five we
associate which you can say code for
advertise advertise Oops There You Go
advertise ourselves with the solution
right we want to pair ourselves with the
things that they like they like solution
to their problems everybody wants to be
in less pain and so that means that I'm
going to probably start making content
and picking off piece by piece here I'm
going to say hey um here are some things
that we see across our firm for The Med
spas and anti-aging clinics that have
helped Drive profits they actually can
they can combine this stuff in their
refrigerator and they pack it this way
so they can actually fit more in and
have more stuff more room for services
great here's the second thing is what
how people set up their lobbies this
actually makes it more efficient so they
can see more patience in less time so
I'm going to start making content in
terms of videos in terms of blogs in
terms of written format cheat sheets and
PDFs I'm going to start giving this
stuff away I'm going to start
associating myself with the things they
want and the things they need so when I
start doing this people are like wow I
start to like this guy because he's
making my life better now I keep making
these associations me they don't know
with things they do know and the
problems they are suffering from that
they like I keep making this Association
over and over and over again right now
what happens is is that we
have as we build this brand we have to
think about it from the perspective of
the MedSpa owner okay now this is a this
is a simplified version of what I talk
about in the leads book in the core four
in terms of advertising but I like this
as a as an even easier way to think
about it is that at the top level you've
got you tell people and so me right now
this is me telling you this is me
advertising myself this is me making my
stuff know known that's what we mean you
tell them that's the first level it's
also the least influential right like if
you don't know who I am then you're you
might believe me to some degree maybe
the content that I have will speak more
to you than who I am and that's why the
quality of your stuff matters so much
because every single time there's
somebody who's brand new who doesn't
know you they're going to make 100% of
their judgment off of this first
exchange and I always trying to keep
that on the top of my mind that some of
you guys here who are new have never
heard my stuff before it's like I got to
be good right I got have some good stuff
and if you're struggling to figure out
who you want to sell to I wrote a book
$100 million offers that has several
chapters dedicated to just helping you
solve that problem and if you struggling
with the association step which is
figuring out how I actually advertise
this thing how do I let people know
about it that's what my second book $100
million leads uh help solve and if
you're absolutely broke then you can go
to my podcast they're free uh episode
579 is where they start you can check
them out there if you like watching
instead you can go to my site ac.com um
and I have video courses on this they're
free you don't even have to opt in for
them um and if you like the physical
copy you can go check them out on Amazon
we've sold over a million copies of
these books they' have over 25,000 five
stars um so give him a gander you
probably won't be disappointed let's get
back to it so think about it like a
movie just to give a simple example the
movie company tells you that their movie
is great so they make a movie trailer
all right so you watch the movie trailer
do you immediately go see a movie when
you see a great movie trailer probably
not sometimes you're like well that
looked interesting that looked good so
what do you do next number two is you
your friends tell you you say hey that
new Godzilla trailer you see that looks
pretty cool and your friends say dude I
went to go see it it sucked and you're
like oh yes just like that that movie
doesn't get my business right now the
last time I saw a movie that really took
over from word of mouth was Maverick
which was the Top Gun movie I don't know
if you guys saw that when it came out I
feel like I got 10 different people who
were like dude it's the best movie I've
seen in two years right and I was like
wow wrong now I saw the I saw the the
trailer and I was like this looks cool
but when 10 people told me to go see it
I was like all right I'm going to go see
it right and so this one far more
powerful what people say what others say
I should just say others sorry make this
easier for you what other people say
what other people say to them matters
way more than what you tell them now the
third level here is what they experience
themselves right so you make your
promises what they experience themselves
so at the top level you've got a movie
trailer The level underneath of that the
people are like hey this is good this
was bad this was mediocre the level
underneath of that is that I go see the
movie and I make my own decision for
myself now the a movie is a great
microcosm example of what a brand is in
a very short thing it's only one product
the movie you go see it or you do and
then they generate cash it's actually
not really a business it's fundamentally
one chunk of media that has a ton of
marketing behind it
and then that's it and then they try and
make another movie right now for us as
business owners we're not in the movie
business we're in the we want them to
buy again and again and again business
so what we do is that when we make our
promises what we tell them we have to
deliver on the promise so that when they
see our movie they go to our restaurant
they use my accounting services people
are like wow this guy really is good
right and so when that occurs this
completes the loop because they get this
amazing experience they believe me the
next time I make a claim and they become
the people who tell other people hey
these guys really are good and this
creates What I Call The Virtuous cycle
of branding is that you make a promise
you keep that promise and then people
tell other people that you kept that
promise and then other people try your
thing and then you keep your promise to
them and then around and around it goes
and it just takes time to get this
second level where other people talk on
your behalf which matters far more than
what you say because anybody can get
somebody to buy one thing one time but
it takes a business who can keep their
promises as exceptional who can get them
to buy again and again and again so if
we're going through the steps in
branding first off you understand
branding is making associations between
things they don't know and things they
do know which is hopefully something
they like so they make that rubbing that
likingness rubs off on you you do it
because it helps you get more customers
for Less convert a higher percentage at
higher prices and get them to buy again
and starve out your competition the who
is when you start this process you think
who am I trying to be the ideal uh who
am I trying to provide likingness to and
so if I were trying to go to Med Spa
owners it might be very different in
terms of the type of content that I'd be
making if I'm an accounting firm than if
I was going to homeowners right if I
want residential homeowners to be my
target market uh or just normal uh W2
employees we I'd be making entirely
different content and associating with
very different things for that audience
right now I'm still an accounting
accountant as a business but who I'm
trying to make the positive association
with has a very different feel to it
right I could even decide I only want
Republicans it's not a protected class
by the way you can say you only want
Democrats the only Republicans not
protected on either side political
parties is not a protected class and so
I could say I'm only going to make
content that appeals to this demographic
and I know that I'm going to ward off
all the people on the other side of the
aisle figuratively now you might also
ward off any who doesn't want political
stuff in their accounting right which is
a third bucket the point is is that you
get the who which in our example was Med
Spa because it satisfied the four things
they're growing they're in pain they
have the money to spend and they're easy
to find cool so we have the med Spas now
what do they like they like getting more
customers they like making more profit
they like making their lives easier they
like saving money they like making their
company sellable okay so I'm going to
start making cons around all of those
topics and if I succeed at teaching that
stuff then they're going to make that
positive association with me and they're
going to like me I'm keep keeping a
micro promise within my content which
increased the likelihood that they think
that I'll keep my macro promise that I
can help them as an accounting firm
drive more profits make better decisions
with the business and then ultimately
when they want to come to transition or
sell the business I might be the one who
can my financials will help them make
that transaction and and Steward it over
to a new owner now the fifth step was
associate or advertis now I just talked
about there's three levels there what
you do which is the core for so you
either make content you reach out to
people you don't know reach out to
people you do know or you run ads
there's the four ways that you can do it
right so you make the associations
through the advertising so I want to be
clear
here advertising is letting people know
The Branding is what you let them know
so people get this big this whole thing
mixed up they're like advertising
branding what's the difference
advertising is the process of making
known branding is what you make known
it's the content of the advertising it's
what associations occur while you are
making things known right and so you can
have exceptional advertising and
terrible happened at the same time the
Budweiser campaign was exceptional
advertising they let the whole world
know they were making association with
Dylan M the the transperson now for
Their audience for their who that was a
bad Association and so it was bad
branding but it was good advertising and
we have to make sure that we can break
those things apart and to be clear for a
different who that pairing with Dylan
mvan might have been really good for a
different company that had a different
who and so if you had a a
a business that served people who were
super super uh left and very uh
Progressive in terms of all that stuff
then that would be a pairing that might
drive sales and it'd be both good
advertising and good branding in that
subset of audience but for Bud Lights or
Budweiser's core audience that was an
association they did not like and did
not want and so it drove down sales it
was bad it was a bad thing that's why we
have to know what do they like so that
we can pair with that as hard as we can
and we advertised the hell out of it so
as many people as humanly possible can
find out about that pairing and then
finally this is the last step of
branding which is the most important
step the most important step is keeping
your promises okay which it comes
down comes down to product meaning that
the thing that you said what you said it
would do does it the way you said it
would do it by the time you said it
would get done which very easy to say
very hard to do
but fundamentally the biggest businesses
in the world like the reason apple is
Apple is because the products are
exceptional now they've had now I'm
going to talk about the last you know 20
years has been now obviously at
different times and they're they're
trying to figure out what their next big
Jesus product is going to be now but
fundamentally they have the brand they
have because they have made the
association with elegant simple easy to
useed design that makes technology
accessible for everyone that's
fundamentally what they've done right
that is what they stand for and in the
beginning it was a being not a suit but
the thing is at this point the vast
majority of people associate with not
that and so they actually bet on what
would eventually become the majority of
people and so they fulfilled their
promise because their products are
elegant they are easy to use they are
Sleek right they have all of those
elements and once people do buy from
them what happens and I'll tell you the
story to what it feels like so the first
time I ever had the experience of good
brand good reputation I had positive
associations with an audience I launched
something called uh LNS which would
became like the first beta version of
what would become Allen uh my software
company so I did this webinar to just my
existing audience and a bunch of people
weren't able to make it on because
they're gym owners and they're you know
they're business owners they're busy and
but they knew that we were going to be
doing the build outs for automated lead
nurture for their gyms in order of the
order getting received and so we had
people calling in saying hey I missed
the webinar I have no idea what Alex is
selling but here's my credit card just
bill me I'm in for whatever it is and so
think about the power of that is that
the only reason someone would behave
that way is because they have a strong
history of positive reinforcement with
the brand is that every other promise
that I had made up to this point for
those people I had delivered on more
than they had paid and so if someone
just says listen I just here's the card
I know I'm going to get my money's worth
just charge me so I can get in line
sooner that's that's where where you
want to be and that's where all of these
other kind of like you hear these like
direct response marketing hacks and
tricks and and whatevers they become
irrelevant because you have the thing
that matters most which is a strong
positive Association that orients
someone's Behavior towards you with a
higher likelihood of purchasing more
frequently exclusively from you at
higher
prices and this is why it's so important
the problem is that it's hard because it
takes time and you have to be deliberate
with it there's a reason that I haven't
taken a black pill or red pill podcast
there's a reason I haven't done that
believe me I get [__] asked right I
don't want the association there's tons
of people in the porn world that reach
out and say hey hop on our podcast we
get so many views we get all this stuff
sure and the thing is is that I
personally you guys know My Views I'm
nihilistic in general I don't think
anything has inherent meaning so I don't
care what anyone does in terms of how
they choose to make their money or how
they choose to make their income
provided it's legal right now and it is
legal but I also know that there's a big
segment of my audience that does care
and so I don't want to disenfranchise
those people that trade isn't worth it
for me and so I don't want to make that
Association not that I have any issue
with it it's just not a trade I'm
willing to make and so whenever you make
whenever you make an association you
trade a certain percentage of your
audience for ideally a greater
percentage of the type of people you
want right and so the Dylan mvan move to
go back to that did strengthen Bud Light
for a sub segment of the audience they
had some people that might have actually
started drinking Bud Light because they
did that now they might have lost those
people because they basically backed off
on the position very quickly but for a
moment they made a bet with the move and
they got some segment to like them there
was just more of them that hated it and
so they lost overall and so you're go
whenever you make any change when you
make any new Association that's
different than what you have done in the
past you are going to lose some people
and gain others the point of good
branding is that the ones you gain are
more of the who you want and the ones
you lose are the people you don't want
and so every day you're basically
pruning this tree you're weeding the
garden you're planting the right flowers
and taking out the wrong ones and here's
a here's an interesting point let's say
we have this this this thing of roses
and this is something I think that
really drive home for a lot of you if
you've got this row of flowers and
that's your whole garden it's just just
all red roses right and then a white
rose pops up in the middle of the red
roses there's nothing inherently wrong
with a right Rose there's nothing
inherently wrong about me talking about
my relationship with Laya right but for
my audience for my who it's business
first and so like I I made this tiny
mistake within our our you know our own
business or learning whatever you want
to call it was that there was a there
was a period of 3 to six months where I
started experimenting with some wider
topics the thing is is that I I lose
some audience who isn't married who are
business owners but why would I not want
to appeal to them I'm I'm business first
and so I got this question and I I want
to hit on it because I think it's really
good is that I have said before that you
are the niche right all the unique
things about you create the thumbprint
of your personal brand so how do you
contrast that with saying hey you want
to just do the stuff that your who or
your audience likes so this is how I
explain it is that let's think about
this is a central pillar see this marker
this is the central pillar of my brand
which is business that is the central
pillar of what I have now some people
are going to be business in married some
people are going to be business in
Fitness some people are going to be
business in philosophy some people are
going to be business and uh marriage or
whatever I whatever other ones I have
you know dessert okay fine the thing is
is that business always has to be first
because that's the common thread of the
whole Community if I make marriage first
then I will lose everyone that's that's
not marriage
first and so you can sprinkle in your
uniqueness of identity but around the
core value proposition that you have for
your who mind you this is if you have
the desire to monetize a brand and do it
for a specific Avatar and so if you have
the accounting firm and you're making
content about how to do your books and
how to be more profitable and how to set
up your lobby and how to generate
customers all that stuff that you might
do to help attract more metpa owners to
you you might as a business owner of the
accounting firm be married and that's
fine but you're still going to make the
accounting practice and helping metpa
owners be the core because every one of
them when we talk about what do they
like all of them like that all of my
audience likes business and so you keep
the one thing that you know they all
like that you have the strongest
positive Affinity with with the most
percentage of your audience the key core
thing and so if you're going to go
through this and you want to build your
brand you know what it is you know why
it's important you figure out who you're
going to go after you're going to make
sure it's growing easy to Target they
got the money to spend and they got the
problem to solve you figure out the
things they like you associate yourself
with those things through advertising so
that's making content reaching out to
people and running ads and appearing
next to people and with things that they
find positive in general for that
audience you do that as much as you
possibly can and that will allow you to
get the purchase now once you have the
purchase you either break the cycle of
branding or you create a virtuous cycle
of branding which means The Branding
reinforces itself and you do that by
keeping your promise with the product
not over promising under promising overd
delivering and doing exactly what you
said you were going to do the way you
said you were going to do it by the time
you said you'd get it done if you do
this over time a larger and larger
audience will be customers of yours and
tell other people to become customers of
yours you will be the Godzilla movie you
will be the Maverick movie where you say
you're great but then 10 other people
tell people that you're great and then
everyone wants to buy and then they do
see the movie they do go to your
restaurant they do use your dry cleaning
they do go to your gym they do try your
agency Services they do sell a house
with you they do work with you and then
they become a larger part of that pool
that compounds and says they are who
they they are who they say they are